fiteclub


An unfinished collection of utter shite. (2019 -2020)

preamble/





apology


A post-mortem of the thing you just started reading to handwave away how shite it is.

Fiteclub (like a majority of the projects I’ve better half of August gushing about to un-worked on) was never supposed to be a impressed friends are mysteriously absent.

major undertaking - the aim was essential-This introduction aims to essentially be a ly to force myself to be productive and to post-mortem of Fiteclub while also explain-have released a small compilation of ten ing the concepts I aimed for it to be based or so articles on varying topics by the end around. In other words, this introduction is of 2019. At the time I viewed it as a small just an attempt to claim that this zine is side-project that’d get me back to some shite for artistic reasons and that it’s obvi-mythical vague past state of creativity, it ously your fault for not recognising that.

was to be a project that wouldn’t necessar-ily challenge me (after all I had five months) Fiteclub started out (like all things) as a but one that would still require significant dumb joke that gradually morphed into a effort on my behalf. After a few months of serious project. I had overheard a rumour making dumb blog posts during all-night-that a nearby private school had an or-ers, making dumb zine articles during ganised fight club and for some reason the all-nighters felt like some form of progress.

premise of a “club” consisting solely of the In other words, the zine would edge me sons of Marks & Spencer shoppers batter-closer to becoming one of those pretentious ing the shite out of one another was deeply posers who refer to themselves as “journal-funny to all three of my friends accustomed ists” due to their 3,000 word think-pieces to my brain worms. Something about the on how “Killinaskully” represents neoliber-faux-masculinity parroted by well-off pri-alism. It was essentially just an attempt for vate school arseholes (remember that this me to pretend to be an actual “writer”, as was around the time that Versatile were opposed to just some narcissistic gowl who exposed as posh pricks) and represented in made a habit of sending excessive spiels this dumb fight club rumour felt so artificial about disliking the internet to random peo-to me to the point of absurdity - it’s just ple on Discord at screwy hours.

fundamentally weird to me that the same people who go to schools with badminton But obviously that’s not how things panned courts try to act “tough” and because of out, leading us to this current moment in that the better part of a month was spent time. I’m sitting here at around half two in joking about this contrast. Eventually it was the morning and am finally getting around ironically agreed that “Young Fine Gael to working on this preamble/apology after Fight Club” would be a funny title for a pre-putting it off for the better part of three tentious zine and because I am incapable days and it’s been over two months since of sensing irony I started work in earnest.

this zine was meant to be released. It currently contains around seven articles, two My aim for this project was to write about of which feel extremely similar to me. None topics that only I cared about in the hopes of the “major” (ie. actually requiring me to that by writing with an expected audience leave the gaff) articles ended up panning of zero people this zine would somehow out, and a lot of the concepts I spent the loop around and be vaguely interesting to those who have similar brain worms to

mine. I’ve spent way too much time in the al in this zine accurately captured a certain past trying and failing to condense my work chapter in my life that I like to pretend that into a more general, consumable format to I’ve moved beyond, despite the fact that the point where I was convinced that the the feelings that defined that chapter still only way to reach that goal would be to lurk around in the background. This proj-just indulge my worst habits to their logical ect feels deeply narcissistic, whingy, and extremes and essentially just parody myself. egocentric (after all how many times can The articles that Fiteclub would consist of you bitch about being a manchild) but to intended to only be interesting to people alter or subdue the material felt strange to in the exact same situation at the exact me - it was as if I was airbrushing a picture same time, regardless of the fact that this of a past self in order to alter my memory audience doesn’t exist and never would and allow nostalgia to seep in. Fiteclub exist. If you were a vaguely depressive and was where I was for the better half of last anxiety-ridden culchie who spent too much year and it felt wrong to change it, even if it time on the internet for three months last does expose me as an utter hack incapable year this was going to be the zine for you, of writing. It felt as if the only real way to for better or for worse.

move beyond Fiteclub and the feelings it contained was to finally release it into the Around the time I started work on Fiteclub digital ether, resigning it to the confines I was obsessed with reclaiming the concept of some Neocities server in a country I’ve of “culchieism” and attempting to depict never visited, letting me refer to this work in the humorous bleakness that permeates the past tense, and move on to bigger and life in rural communities. I’m reminded here better things (ie. gabber songs that sample of a stupid joke I made after a socialist episodes of Reeling In The Years). I doubt friend quipped that rural life was funda-anyone will get any real enjoyment out of mentally reactionary - “culchie culture is this project, but hopefully it offers you some going weeks without talking to people, form of perspective - even if it’s derived being nostalgic for when TV3 was barely from pointing and laughing at it.

visible, and getting dread after seeing your sixty-five year old uncle on rural grindr”.

There’s something about the isolation, confusing pageantry, and oddly in-depth acknowledgements

GAA drama fundamental to rural life that This project would never have been possible progressively melts your brain (and leads to without the support of a wide range of friends you being very online) and this brain melt and mutuals (to the point where I’m scared I’ll forget to mention one or two of them, please has gone from being something I actively don’t kill me if this ends up happening). Pa-despised and derided to becoming the tricular thanks needs to be given to Andy (@

sole source of my creative inspiration. It’s cyber_semen) for providing the cover illustration hard to make a piece of art that captures (and the YFGer illustration which still haunts me the feeling of finding out the neighbouring to this day), to Tom (@gembertom) for providing village had a major Cumann na mBunscol edgy pictures of Europe for me to use throughout this work, to Star (patreon.com/infiniteoutlaw) cheating scandal or realizing you haven’t for having to read nearly every single first draft left the house for days, but that didn’t stop I’ve composed for the past twelve months, to me from trying.

Lee (@leecairnduff) for coming up with the title of this zine and being the main inspiration of a I never finished Fiteclub - a majority of lot of this material, to Fintan (@regretwillcome) and Titus (@titusgilner) for somehow agreeing what is published in this zine was penned in to let me interview them, to Oisín (@oisinesc) the months between August and Novem-for enduring my Portlaoise anecdotes, to Lia (@

ber of 2019 but just sat on my laptop until liablonded) for enduring my explanations of Irish mid-February due to a prolonged feeling of history, to Jacob (@challaharendt) for making burnout from writing and the creative pro-me realize I should make fun of people who go cess as a whole. The attempts that I made to Trinity, and to anyone and everyone I’ve talked to online in the past twelve months. Despite to finish this project felt equally as artificial the fact that it sounds deeply trite, if I’ve sent as the private school masculinity that in-you a link to this PDF you mean something to me spired it - for better or for worse the materi-and I appreciate being able to talk to you.





gaffleavers


Online games are still something that’s new being stuck babysitting whatever manchild to me. In the past I rarely if ever played them, Valve decided I needed to spend an hour of my mainly as my internet sucked, I thought I had life with. However, I eventually bit the bullet one some self-respect, and I was perpetually scared night and that session lead to my fear of aging of sucking so bad someone from my team would being heavily reinforced (and this article being yell at me over their mic. However, since I spent penned).

this summer between the same four walls and behind the same four screens I started to play Spending half an hour with a thirty-something them frequently - if anything just because it sounding Polish MGTOW is not a pleasant facilitated human contact in a way that didn’t experience in any way, especially when he keeps make me feel desperate. It felt weird and someon getting mad at you over his inability to play what needy for me to ask someone to hop in a a children’s video game. As he raged at me for discord call or hang out with me if I was feeling not landing a shot (even though he camped in bleak but asking someone to play a dumb spawn with a joke weapon and got obliterated internet game made me feel vaguely “normal”

round after round) I didn’t feel dread because of

- whatever that meant. It was an easy way his inability to shut up, but more because of the to force someone to listen to me and an easy fact that he existed. Something about the fact way to make three-to-four hours pass, even if it there was a grown thirty-something screaming meant having to deal with capital G gamers.

over a shooting game at 4:30 in the morning on a Tuesday without feeling any form of shame Because I hate myself I focused a lot of my time gave me this weird feeling of visceral disgust. As and energy on Counter Strike Global Offensive, he got madder and madder I just started to ask a game arguably populated by some of the myself the same questions over and over. Does biggest capital G gamers and objectively one of he not realize how much of a scene he is making the easiest ways to give yourself deep existen-of himself? Does he not realize how embarrasing tial angst. I’d hop on every second or third day it is to act this way in front of strangers? Why is with either my friend Autumn or Yuvsol, try to his profile picture (google “MGTOW profile pic-shoot some lad with a cropped hentai profile ture” and go to the tenth page) something an picture over and over in the same two maps edgy fourteen year old would use? Does he not (since they were the only ones I didn’t suck on), have a reason to be asleep? Why does he keep eventually land a shot or two, and then riff on on buying the worst weapon in the game and how we were perpetually matched up against expecting to win?

cringy manchildren.

In the two games previous to this one I inten-What was initially just an excuse for me to talk tionally sucked up to the random person I was to people quickly became a minor obsession playing with in order to wring some humanity and I started to play CS:GO daily - usually out of them - basically I just said “nice shot”

either with a friend or just against bots. I initially to them whenever they killed someone in the avoided playing online by myself, mainly as I hope that by appealing to their egos they’d still sucked at the game and couldn’t be arsed suddenly be nice to me. However, with this lad I

just couldn’t be arsed to say anything and I was you have to be bored behind a screen constant-just waiting for the game to finally end. I just ly and consistently, which is usually a red flag wanted to be as far away as possible from this that something isn’t going so great in your life.

person as soon as I could just so I could get rid So it’s unsurprising that as the people I grew of the feeling of dread permeating out of my up around become less depressed, lonely and laptop screen. However, once we had reached alienated the less I’ll be a part of their lives. Our our 9-6 defeat and I turned off my computer for friendships, despite how often we said otherwise the night the feeling of raw disgust I felt refused were meant to be a temporary stopgap for our to go away for days. But why?

collective lowest moments, an artefact of an era we were supposed to look back on in ten One of my new bullshit anxiety-fuelled fears is years and joke about with our new friends who being outgrown by people who I used to hold actually live in the same country. However, as dear. To a certain degree that feels like a run-my friends move on past this era I still sit here ning theme of this year so far - a lot of the peo-behind the same screen waiting for a reply. The ple who defined the time I spent behind screens selfish, immature and hyper-emotional part of in 2016 to 2018 are beginning to get their shite my brain often misses these friends, gets mad together, leave the house frequently, have that they’re happy now and wishes for the partners or friend groups, leave school, get jobs return of the era where I got to be around them and now they no longer have the time or energy constantly but the more considerate part of my to maintain the weird internet friendships I base brain realizes that if they came back they’d be my life around. People are suddenly talking regressing back into a darker period of their lives about going into secondary teaching without a and they’d be deeply unhappy again. Now this shred of irony, primary school people we joked realization doesn’t really shut up the emo side about are suddenly parents, people have full-on of my brain but it does give it something else to beards now and I’m still arsing around in this feel guilty about, so I guess it works? It’s progress room which has never changed listening to the at least.

same three ambient records over and over so my words in this article flow a bit better. I’ve always In one of my favourite blog posts of all time been perpetually behind everyone else in life infamous comedian and cum podcaster Nick and am somewhat used to it to an extent - I Mullen talks about GamemasterAnthony, an never had real friends until secondary school, I

“unfuckable loser” (in the words of Mullen) most only started drinking at sixteen and I’m still get-infamous for a deeply depressing forum post ting used to social cues my friends got to pick where he fantasizes about “every character up years ago, but the idea of the people I spent from every game, comic, cartoon, TV show, mov-countless hours moping with over text suddenly ie and book” coming together to hold a massive moving on and leaving me behind freaks me out thirty-third birthday party for him. In this post in a way I find hard to describe.

Mullen points out that instead of being tethered towards characters like GamemasterAnthony I’ve always felt like a stagnant person - always out of altruism or empathy he’s instead obsessed perpetually stuck in the same room doing the with them out of fear. In his words he’s not in-same three or four things behind the same three terested in these losers because he cares about or four screens to pass time. However, I always them, he’s interested out of a feeling of “there assumed that the people I digitally surround-but the Grace of God, go I”. “How close have you ed myself with would also be as stagnant for come to being an unfuckable loser, turning 33, some stupid reason. I thought I’d still be talking alone, posting about a fictional birthday party to them daily five years down the line - still with your only friends, Mickey Mouse and Sailor constantly mad at society, the people in it who Moon?” he asks. For some reason this question don’t understand us, the dumb 30 year old freaked me out in a way that was similar to how CSGO players we kept on being matched with, I felt after that 9-6 defeat. Perhaps I wasn’t but mainly ourselves. But that’s not how life disgusted at that Polish incel because of the actually works and most sane people will even-way he acted but more because I saw a future tually find reasons to turn off the computer and version of myself in his tantrum.

leave the room.

Whenever I think of anything beyond the next A pet theory of mine is that there is a correlation four weeks or beyond these four walls my brain between the depth of your internet friendships completely blanks out. I just can’t think of any-and how much you despise your current situa-thing coherent and the more I try to squeeze tion in life. This isn’t because Discord is exclu-thought out the more it starts to hurt my brain.

sively for emos but more a result of the fact that I just can’t see myself knowing what career to in order to maintain deep internet relationships go into or what courses to take let alone where



I want to end up in life. The idea of owning a house, having a healthy relationship and settling down are completely alien to me, hell the idea of choosing a career because it pays well is something that’s equally as alien. The fact that there’s a life outside of this weird stunted online purgatory is something that constantly tortures my thought process despite the fact I’m unable to properly conceive it. If anything, all I am capable of is thinking about how screwed I am - how I have less and less time to get my shite together and how likely it is that I’ll end up being a weird stunted failure with little to no social life and fifty unread discord messages sent to friends who moved on from the internet ages ago.

Because of this inability to think about my future I’m always a little intimidated when surrounded by people who are able to talk about theirs - whenever someone my age says

“oh I’m going to go into teaching because it’s a stable position” I will freak out internally and picture myself as a 34 year old screaming over CSGO voice chat. Whenever I try to get out of this rut I just see him, a 34 year old wielding a revolver and screaming slurs. Whenever I think about going back to my counselor I hear him, a grown man heavily breathing into a broken microphone. It’s as if I’m perpetually trapped in his room, writing this article on his greasy keyboard.

Recently I sent some of my older writing to some random person on a Discord server, if anything just expecting to get a well-deserved bollocking over my inability to use words in an interesting and coherent way. Instead, they started to praise some of my work and this person found one of my oldest pieces - a really sappy half-baked script about why I made things on a blog I used to run. For some reason they managed to enjoy this piece and pointed out how it’d be interesting for me to do a follow-up in five years time to see who I really was. I replied back to this person with a joke about how funny it would be if I still completely related to that piece five years down the line and if I just wrote the exact same article again as the follow-up. Being brutally honest, that statement to me feels like less of a joke and more like a prediction of the one future I am rapidly heading towards. But hey, at least I’ll probably have a decent PC to play CSGO on by then.





feck blogging


The following is lifted from my Medium account and was originally penned in July of 2019, but you’re being exposed to it again just for the sake of irony.

I am a scarily cyclical person. Every three-default theme I’ll “eventually get around to to-six months I decide that it’s finally tweaking” and is exclusively visited by poor the time I get my life together and start internet friends forced to read 2,500 word consistently writing again — this decision long essays about Yoñlu songs and find is usually inspired either by feeling of false some sort of positive response due to my nostalgia for the last time I was in this inability to Shut Up About The Blog. Once I state of mind, by feeling motivated by get this positive feedback I’ll either discard literally any mediocre book or documentary it as forced and the cycle will end or I’ll feel about someone who made a thing in their the urge to write even more — after all if bedroom, a feeling of having done nothing some infinitely cooler Dutch mutual sup-all year or even just a feeling that I need posedly enjoyed it when I self-flagellated

“more of a personality” (please don’t ask to the sound of “All The Things She Said” by how my brain equates writing with having t.A.T.u perhaps they’d enjoy it if I proceeded a personality, it hasn’t been on poetry to self-flagellate to increasingly niche yet twitter). Pretty much every single time I’ve samey topics over and over in repetitive entered this state of mind I end up asking ways. Then, during the process of writing myself one question with no real answer or this third blog post I’ll discover that whatev-relevance, “Should I make another zine or er software I’m using to host this inevitable start a blog?”.

blog has analytics.

At first I’ll settle on making some sort of Something about analytics (and data as zine — mainly since zines are objectively a whole) appeals to both my inner-middle cooler, since I have some experience with manager and lizard brain in a way that’s graphic design (translation: I make album nearly impossible to explain. Just watch-covers for my friends) and since the kind of ing the numbers on my blog fluctuate and person who still openly talks about starting reading oddly-specific facts (oh, 10% of my a blog is usually some sort of brain-pill friends I annoyed read half of my 5,000

peddling small business pervert. I’ll open up word t.A.T.u article on an iPhone? this is Photoshop, throw together an uninspiring cool) is something that I’m easily addicted

“placeholder” cover thinking it’d lead to me to — even if it’s objectively nerdier than having some form of investment in the zine having a blog in the first place. Despite the (even though it does the opposite), write fact that it’s probably morally murky for me one and a half articles that drag on for way to snoop on largely irrelevant details I’ll still too long and then promptly give up on the spend a stupid amount of the day after re-project — after all who even reads zines leasing a post just refreshing the analytics anymore, let alone zines written by me?

page over and over, hoping to see some-Usually, once I’ve made this realization I’ll thing change. I end up writing just to see feel guilty that I wasted a stupid amount of the numbers go up — if I get one more of time writing one and a half whole articles my internet acquaintances to read my third and try to find some way to recycle them, boring YouTube post it’s automatically more leading to the inevitable blog.

of a success than my second. This chasing of numbers leads to the darkest point of The inevitable blog usually houses one or this cycle — posting my writing on Reddit.

two (perhaps even three if I’m motivated) of these zine-inspired blog posts, uses a Reddit is a really bad website populated



mostly by alt-right boomers perpetual-by pretending that this is the time I do ly mad at their Antifa-loving grandkids, everything right, that this time I’ll get my freshly-divorced Lego collectors and shit together and that this time I’ll push people who compile “Rick and Morty Epic through. It clearly won’t be considering the Moments” videos as their main hobby.

fact you aren’t reading this inside a zine However, despite how awful the site is and the fact this will probably be the only whenever I post any original content on post on this Medium account. It’s a nice there I feel a sense of immense guilt.

thought though.

Self-promotion is something I am perpetually incapable of and whenever I try to do In other words, I’m back on my bullshit.

it I just feel deeply sleazy. I end up getting really anxious over whether I’ve posted too much original content on my account (which is a major faux-pas on Reddit for some reason) and ponder on if I’ve become one of those soylent-chugging weirdos who spend most of their day getting mad at the search engine placement of their Juggalo bare-knuckle boxing blog, have an in-depth Google Calendar setup for their Discord calls and enjoy using the word

“niche” instead of “demographic”.

One of the weirdest results of me having used the internet as my sole source of friendship and community for way too long is that I am constantly self-aware in stupidly specific ways that inevitably just drag me (and my work) down. I can’t say positive things about myself or my creative output because I’m too busy thinking of some oddly-specific caricature that somehow resembles what I’m trying to do. I nearly gave up on writing this blog post halfway through this paragraph because it reminded me of someone from Twitter. I can’t promote myself on a forum mainly populated by divorced Lego uncles because my brain is warped to the point of fearing being embarrassed by them, despite knowing how dumb it is.

This is usually when “reality” (really just my self-awareness) kicks in and the cycle ends for another few months. I unintentionally abandon the blog due to an inability to actually finish any content, fall into a slump of doing nothing creative for a few months then let the cycle start all over again. To be brutally honest (even if it sounds lame) I’m scared to work out how exactly how many times I’ve gone through this cycle — it’s clearly been quite a few times since each time this cycle restarts I motivate myself



interview: regret





will come


Trying to explain the work released by multi-in-

FC: What is the process of recording a Regret

strumentalist Fintan Gallagher under the name

Will Come song like?

Regret Will Come is something I’ve tried and I usually come up with songs by just messing failed to do a stupid amount of times. Ever since around with an instrument until something comes the release of their 2016 project “i hope you out of it that I like. Then I spend the next week to thrive” a scary amount of my time has been spent a month gathering the energy to finally sit down trying to explain why a bunch of lo-fi bubblegum and write and record something with it. Once all pop anthems recorded on a PS2 microphone had the lyrics and main instrumental bit is written, it’s such an emotional impact on me. The closest that usually just 3 or so hours of adding and subtract-I’ve gotten to explaining the appeal of their dis-ing until I get something that sounds good. Or I cography was just coming up with niche, semi-au-just delete it if I’m not into it and move on.

tobiographical comparisons of what their music felt like. The music of Regret Will Come feels like

FC: Your work has been lumped in as bedroom

that pang of existential dread you get on a Sun-

pop or lo-fi in the past, is the lo-fi nature of your

day afternoon after wasting the weekend (or your

records an intentional aesthetic choice or just a

life) on the internet. Their music feels like going

result of circumstances?

to a Supermac’s halfway through November for Well when I was 16 I couldn’t afford nice mics or comfort food after not eating for 24 hours. It feels ableton or any of that shit. I had a singstar mi-like rewatching “Serial Experiments Lain” for the crophone and a laptop with audacity and that’s third time in a failed attempt to get out of your always felt like enough. If there was actually head. Instead of wasting 2,000 words coming up anything riding on my music (i.e. I was doing this with new comparisons I managed to land an in-to make a living), I might invest in better gear.

terview with Fintan and got to talk about living in But right now, I don’t see the point. Needless busy the middle of nowhere, niche internet communi-work and effort for music that three people will ties, isolation and walking into concerts late while probably listen to (that sounds way too bitter, I high. It’s the closest thing to real journalism you’re accepted that I wont be making any money of going to see in this zine so enjoy it.

this a long time ago). I hate recording with a mic that starts clipping if you speak too close to it, but

FC: What first inspired you to get into making

it sounds like me now at this point.

music and why?

Growing up in the countryside means having fuck

FC: A lot of your early listeners found you

all to do outside of school and whatever extra

through threads on a certain internet music fo-

curricular activity I wasn’t cut out for (in another

rum, do you think that this forum and the inter-

life, I can solo a GAA ball with my eyes closed).

net as a whole has been a source of inspiration

I’d always loved listening to music and then one

for your creative output? If so, in what way?

day when I was 14 I heard Reckless Abandon Man, 4chan gets a bad rep, and definitely by Blink-182 and was so moved by its beauty, I deservedly so. But /mu/, /a/ and /mlp/ kept me immediately taught myself it on guitar. I spent sane as a lonely 16/17 year old kid. The guys and the next few years just learning how to play any girls on that board and website encouraged me instrument (poorly) I could get my hands on. I and my music in a way that honestly, very few recorded my first song when I was 16, and I’m still people in my personal life ever have. They are trying to reach Reckless Abandon levels of beauty.

also the only people who are completely unafraid

of giving criticism which could be good to hear Self defence. The self titled album needed a self sometimes. Also /mu/ was mindblowing for me as portrait, and the mask felt the most natural and a kid. I don’t know if you remember sharethreads, comfortable way to take a picture of myself.

but they completely shaped how I listened and approached music. So much weird, awful, amaz-

FC: What are some records you’ve been listen-

ing music archived and immediately download-

ing to lately?

able. That website meant a lot to me back then, I’ve spent the last year listening to Veteran by despite it being a cesspit.

Jpegmafia. Dude’s incredible. Alopecia by Why?

as well as cLOUDEAD’s discography. I always have

FC: In the past you’ve talked about growing sick

some Stars of the Lid album on the backburner as

of music and (seemingly) burning out during the

well, and Avec Laudenum is making me emotion-

process of working on your self-titled. How did

al everytime I listen to it at the moment.

you deal with this burnout (if you did deal with it

Stars of the Lid are probably the best band

in the first place)?

that has ever existed and I interrupted them by I haven’t really dealt with it honestly. I’ve discov-stumbling into their gig (at the national concert ered through that album that I hate pretty much hall) stoned as hell and late. I still haven’t forgiven everything about being a musician other than myself.

making music. Advertising, live shows, publicity all that stuff just makes me anxious. And for a while

FC: Who do you main in Ultimate and what is the

before this I was deadset on taking this music

best kind of soup?

thing full time, so discovering that something Ike boi. His sword’s got such a huge hitbox and he you thought you wanted your whole life actually can survive smash attacks at like 150%. He also a makes you unhappy made me become disillu-lil bit handsome.

sioned with the entire creative process.

Chicken broth. I like a chewy soup.

I discovered that I just want to make music with no pressures from outside parties. No manager,

Regret Will Come’s latest release “every time i

no fans. Just me and my singstar microphone. I’m

see the ocean” can be found on streaming or at

still working on getting my creative juices flowing





regretwillcome.bandcamp.com


again, but it’s getting there.

FC: A lot of your earlier songs (and some off your

last record) were recorded in your childhood

home in Co. Monaghan. Do you feel like growing

up in a “smaller” (for lack of a better word)

county inspired your music in any way?

Big time. I think living in isolation shaped me as a person and in turn, has had some sort of effect on my music. I think it might be why I can’t make music with other people. I got used to being alone (in a way, I still had my family for company back then). Trying to figure out why I sought so much time alone and why I have such difficulty with people is a recurring theme of mine. Recording in the country was easier as well. Less distractions.

I was at my most active musically when I lived in Monaghan.

FC: In a recent performance and the album cov-

er for your self titled you’re wearing a mask - is

there any meaning behind you wearing it?

Well I don’t play live shows anymore, cause of anxiety for the most part and also because I’ve always hated it. That was a small festival that some friends of mine put on every year and I’ve played every one of them so far so I agreed to play a one off show there. I wore the mask cause I was shitting it. I hate people looking at me but with the mask on in didn’t feel like they were actually looking at me, if that makes any sense.

I could pretend I wasn’t there or I was someone else I guess. Took the edge off the nerves.

And I guess that’s the whole point of the mask.

we all have something interesting inside us

and they hate us for it

Or why everyone who makes art is constantly insecure about it. (Hint: our current system) Whenever I’ve tried messing with a new

“proper art” - go out and make it. This ob-creative medium one of the biggest blocks viously sounds quite reductionist, a cynical I face is this nagging insecurity I am not bootstrap statement peddled by scarily creating a “proper” version of said medium.

overpaid motivational speakers. Howev-As an example of this, when I mess around er, at the end of the day the only way to in FL Studio I often get paranoid that in-create a good song is to put it to tape and stead of creating “real” music I am instead the only way to create a good article is to trying and failing to create an emulation of put it to paper. It is extremely likely that sounds I enjoy. Whatever I work on doesn’t none of the people you idolise never woke feel like an actual piece of music - instead up one morning and told themselves that it seems like an atonal mess of unoriginal they were going to create a piece of “prop-concepts done confusedly, somehow badly er” art - they instead told themselves they ripping off the musicians I enjoy without ac-were going to create a piece of art. There is tually having any of the positive aspects of no objective way to create a “proper” work their work. Regardless of how much time I

- there is no specific chord that suddenly spend tweaking with samples, fiddling with makes a song real, there is no turn of phase mixing or even just working on new demos, that makes a novel a novel, and there is nothing truly feels like “music” - whatever no hue that makes a painting a painting.

that even means. The experience of sitting After all, if one attempted to define what down and listening to something I made a “proper” piece of art is they’d probably feels inexplicably different to the experi-go mental - there are no actual rules as ence of listening to “music” - regardless of the concept of “proper” art is completely quality or how much time I sunk into it.

arbitrary. The closest one can get to a clear definition of “proper art” is often just a sim-Interestingly enough when friends send me ple shrug of “everything I didn’t make”.

demos I’ve noticed a similar insecurity seep through - we’ll both self-deprecate about At the end of the day, the one thing that ourselves before even daring to swap MP3s actually links the works you define as and then we’ll spend a silly amount of time

“proper” is the presence of emotion. Emo-gushing about the work of the other person tion is inherently linked with art and it could to make up for it. None of my friends who be argued that art as a whole is merely a create music (or even just create full stop) time-capsule of the thoughts and feelings feel as if they do so. The idea of making of a certain person at a certain period of things has been relegated to other people time. Nothing more, nothing less. Therefore,

- those with fame, talent or even just a all one needs to do to create a real piece of different body. But where exactly does this art is to translate their thoughts and feel-concept of “proper” art stem from and how ings into a medium that will outlast them.

do we go about creating it?

Everyone is capable of creating an interAt risk of sounding like a small-business esting piece of art - it’s just that our brains owner there is only one way to create are very good at blocking that ability off.

Now obviously this isn’t to say that those easiest.

who create amazing works are weird

Übermensch types who overcame basic self Now art and capital barely mix in the first awareness in order to make weird Simpsons place - after all unlike a product with a webcomics but instead that those who set value art is a subjective creature, hard are capable of making interesting art tend to truly define or set a price to. Therefore, to be in environments where this ability it shouldn’t be too surprising that capital to create is fostered (or is brought out in promotes certain types of art over the spite of said environment). As Mark Fisher others, essentially limiting what we assume aptly pointed out, what goes on inside of is “proper” through constant exposure and our heads is to a certain extent spurred on judgement. We are trained by the press by societal factors. So it shouldn’t be too (and society as a whole) that paintings surprising that those in supportive circles are just fifty million euro hyper-realistic churn out work more consistently, those depictions of Three Stooges characters who have a safety-net tend to go beyond billionaires hang on the Epstein island, that needing it, and that those in collectives end film is just a way to rehash the same three up being more creative as a result of their pieces of intellectual property in five hour membership.

snoozefests every six months, that poetry is weird rhyming Shakespeare stuff you were Now obviously one can’t completely replace forced to learn off but never understand, their inner-voice with outside support that music is just factory churned Ed Sheer-

(especially considering how unhealthy an blackface songs, and that writing is the that would be for everyone involved) but realm of pre-internet incels from the 1800s this support is a major help in overcoming who loved male camaraderie as much as oneself. Even from personal experience, I they loved to do colonialism. Works that have entered prolonged states of writer’s go outside of these capital-endorsed limits block multiple times throughout this year are derided by those who maintain the sta-and without fail every single time I have tus-quo. After all, who would pay for that?

overcome this state of creative anhedonia it has been a direct result of discussing One of the most insidious things about neo-writing with a supportive friend (to the liberalism is that all our interactions have point where my creative peaks tend to been commodified - everything we do is a arrive around the time I meet new people).

financial transaction and our confidence Our brains are currently quite talented at in our art and even ourselves is inherently preventing us from reaching our creative linked to some monetary concept of worth.

goals, so countering this blockage with an Art is not measured based on the emo-encouraging environment is essential to tions it conveys (or even how it conveys creating art. This trope is probably best them), but instead on how much money it depicted in popular bands - their collective could generate in an auction house or on work tends to be their most coherent while a streaming service. What we internally their solo work tends to be more confused.

consider as “proper” art may just be the art our totally benevolent billionaire overlords But why exactly are our brains so intent on enjoy.

classifying our work as anything other than

“proper”? This is a very subjective question Arguably the best proof of this link be-but the more I ponder upon it the more tween “proper” art and capital arrives in I feel as if there is a correlation between the form of punk music, street art and rap what capital promotes as “proper” art

- three things that have gone from icons and what we assume it is. The pieces that of a degenerate subculture derided by come to mind when one thinks of “prop-those in power to ways that those in power er” art (Greek statues with small penises, attempt to look relatable to us peasants.

Banksy getting a monkey to say ‘oi bruv the There was no real societal value associated gov’mint are cheeky’, ‘Jack and Jill (2011)’

with any of these types of art when they erotic fanfiction) are often those that fit were consumed mainly by those who can’t in with the contradictions of capital the afford yachts, even if they all objectively



pushed their mediums forward. Street art

“writers” and inner-city youths than those was graffiti, punk was going to turn your with actual tangible power. This is arguably kid into a gay Marxist, and rap was an easy best seen through “Entartete Kunst”, an art excuse to be racist in your newspaper col-exhibition organised by the Nazis in 1937 to umn. Those who created these kinds of art mock the works of “Jewish” artists that they were openly mocked if not treated badly or confiscated. Instead of choosing to just oppressed because of it (just google what destroy the works that they believed would an ASBO was or which venues the police subvert society due to it’s depiction of “dec-chose to shut down). However, the second adence”, “weakness of character”, “mental that these forms of art became commodi-disease”, and “racial impurity” they opted fied (and arguably pacified) and packaged to compile these works into an exhibition to the rich for ludicrous prices we suddenly of 650 paintings mentioned in avant-gar-began to respect them. When what made de publications. This was (unsurpsisingly) a the art truly counterculture was stripped very cynical, calculated choice - after all back and removed of it’s teeth and context if one was dumb enough to actually think it suddenly became acceptable. When all without a shred of irony that the one thing we were left with were the aesthetics of preventing you from living in some strange rebellion being sold in an auction house aryan utopia was too many people looking for fifteen million all was “proper”. In other at strange paintings of French people, why words, the work of a band like Rage Against would you choose to exhibit them to the The Machine became acceptable the

wider public?

second a person like Paul Ryan could claim to like them. Once your work is palatable to These paintings offered the Nazis an easy your feudal lord it is suddenly real.

enemy - a spectacle for the public to gawk at, be enraged by, and confirm their biases There is a reason why those hellbent on with. After all, the Nazis made a point of defending the status-quo at all costs including exaggerated prices with the rail against modern art pieces, complain pieces to seemingly indicate how much was about drill music, and burn books. Firstly, spent by a museum to acquire a certain they provide a good enemy. After all, it painting. The psychology and ideology that is probably more enjoyable to get mad lay behind this exhibition lives on to this about and laugh at artsy college-educated day. Conservative newspapers spend hours types, people who refer to themselves as trying to work out a way to talk about drill



without being too racist and reactionary YouTubers think that making fun of Yoko Ono is in any way new, edgy or original. However, I feel that the true reason that these status-quo defenders despise unconventional art cuts much deeper.

Art is universal. The emotions expressed within each medium are fundamentally relatable to us as people - they are the thoughts and feelings that stew in our heads and saunter in our conversation. Art offers us a way to temporarily get inside of the head of another person - to understand the world as they see it from their perspective and to glimpse at the thoughts filtered out in normal conversation. It is a medium through which one can gain an understanding of someone completely different and a medium through which one can notice fundamental similarities, and that is arguably one of the scariest things for those hell-bent on keeping us separate and divided.

Art that isn’t seen as “proper” to capital will never be the true cause of it’s downfall (just watch ‘HyperNormalisation’ by Adam Curtis if you want to understand why). However, art provides us with a medium through which it is possible to temporarily have a clear understanding of what binds oneself to the so-called “other” - be they of a different creed, ethnicity or gender. It allows us to see that we share these same emotions, that the struggles we assumed were unique to us are actually universal, and that the differences between us peddled by status-quo defenders are mere distractions from the genuine differences we have with those with genuine, tangible power. At risk of ending this article in an utter cliche, we all have something interesting inside of us and they hate us for it.





gowlhunting


Just in case you haven’t gotten sick of the same three points being hammered over and over I decided to hunt for gowls on twitter again.

I am incapable of writing about things energy and social class of a media centrist I other than the internet being bad. Even could probably make a big song and dance though it’s cliche to point out that the about how this habit is helping restore “ci-internet is a breeding ground for apathy, vility in the era of hashtags” or “good-spir-mediocre gaming youtubers with untamed ited debate on the Epstein island”, but in foot fetishes, and acne tablet fueled hate reality all it does is give my brain a creative crimes I keep on coming back to this one way to overthink (as if I needed another topic, beating a dead horse over and over excuse). What often starts out in earnest as in the hopes of filling two or three pages of an attempt to make fun of the one person this zine (which I will probably never finish). I in CIT who joined Renua often ends up am incapable of writing about other things with me wondering how someone gets to to the point where when I try to contrib-the point of being the one person in CIT

ute to other publications I always have to who joined Renua and whether they’re define my work as “inspired by the inter-happier than I am. Eventually I snap out net” - even though if someone else used of this temporary dread and fire two gags those words I would make fun of them in a sneakily making fun of them into the digital catty, self-loathing inspired way. The only ether - hopefully ruining any chances of me way I can really get around the fact that I having a career in anything at any stage am perpetually writing the same thing over in the future. However, the more I stew and over is to start each piece with a weird in these thoughts the closer they get to spiel about how self aware I am about it.

having a coherent structure - meaning it’s After all, if someone wastes 200-ish words time for me to bore you with some armchair pointing out that they are incapable of psychology.

compiling words properly it suddenly means it’s okay for them to waste another 1,800 of If you’re reading this sorry excuse of an them. And waste them I will.

article you have probably encountered the concept of “false consciousness” before.

Observing online gowls in their prime Just in case I send this zine to someone habitat (Twitter) is my worst habit. For some outside of my sphere of two trusted friends, reason that is probably linked to self-loath-it is a term used mainly by Marxist sociol-ing, whenever I have more than fifteen ogists to describe the ways that different minutes spare and not enough energy to processes (be they material, ideological get out of bed I will often end up scrolling or institutional) can be used to obscure or through the profile of some person I despise conceal the true causes of exploitation and just so I can “laugh at them” (translation: suffering. In layman’s terms, it’s basical-feel unnecessary dread). Regardless of if ly when convenient scapegoats (i.e “big they’re a LibDem under the age of thirty, a government”, migrants, or people who write gamer who never showers and really dis-thinkpieces about that Joker movie) are likes the art direction of a show for people used to get people to misunderstand their half their age, an unironic racist, or even genuine interests and to not notice ex-just a person who claims to enjoy youth ploitation. I’d like to propose that being ex-politics, I will probably end up trying to en-tremely online and isolated leads to a state ter their headspace by reading their tweets of “false self-consciousness” - a fake feeling (and by checking to see just how many porn of being “self-aware” that in reality is only accounts they follow). If I had the mental just your inner-voice finding convenient

scapegoats to explain away why you’re you’ll become functional? But of course, so miserable the whole time (in ways that moving a bone around won’t solve their always seem irreparable for some strange problems. If they do get the surgery they’ll reason). After all, this self-awareness isn’t just assume that they need to take another strong enough to actually inspire some procedure in order to feel okay and if they change in your life - it just leads to you lying don’t get the surgery they’ll just wallow in on top of your bed feeling dread reading self-hatred. These people are self-conscious the tweets of a dead centrist political party enough to know that they feel horrific but and wondering why you’re so manchildish.

not self-aware enough to know the genuine Unlike actual self-awareness, false self-con-reasons why.

sciousness is smothering - cancelling out your ability to create (after all everything As I sat there mid-migrane anxiously you make is embarrasing), your ability to do looking across the Supermacs I noticed the

“embarrasing” things, or even your ability broken television screen above me start to see yourself as a functional person. For to flicker. Some gaelic football match was example, a truly self-aware person who being repeated but it was barely visible -

can’t dance would be okay with doing so instead what could only be described as at a rave as they realize that nobody really

“rejected tumblr glitch-art” stared back at cares if they stumble around the gaff. A me. My anxiety had flared up hard that day falsely self-conscious person on the other as I hung out with a townie friend - mani-hand would just realize that they’re shit at festing itself in awkward social interactions, dancing, freak out about it, dance even laps around Lidl and weird unfinished more awkwardly as a result, hate them-half-jokes. We’d been constantly talking for selves for it and then somehow use it as an hours - somehow translating an erratic and excuse to explain why they’re lonely in a hyperactive texting style into something re-meandering blog post.

sembling human interaction as we walked across the three buildings still open in Laois.

False self-consciousness reigns supreme in At this point my brain felt like mush, melted small internet communities full of alienated by irrelevant fears and constantly looping loners. In unsurprising news, people who awkward attempts to interact socially in a feel alienated from society will congregate,

“human” way. Fragments of conversation and if they’re left unchecked for too long came and went like waves as I anxiously they’ll come up with some weird reasons glared across the sanitized restaraunt. We to explain this alienation. Arguably the looked at websites that sold arcade prizes best example of this is the “looksmaxxing”

in bulk, traded weird old school gossip and community - a group of depressive incels referenced in-jokes too dumb to bother who believe that the one thing prevent-explaining.

ing them from being happy (and getting the ride) is a few milimeters of cheekbone.

I felt a sense of embarassment wash over Obviously this seems insane - after all these me as I stared into the pizza and tried to people fetishize camp 90s underwear

come up with a pun to mask my train of models as the apex of attractiveness and thought. I’d always been concerned as to blow a scary amount of time and money to how this friend found me cool (or even as reach this weird Ken doll fantasy that most to how they dealt with my bullshit for so normal people aren’t even attracted to.

long), after all I am a manchild incapable of However, to the people inside this commu-functioning normally. Usually I just brushed nity it is their personal key to understanding this concern off with the fact that most of their misery. Practical reasons to explain our interactions were over text. After all, why they don’t leave the house often are text was something I was relatively okay brushed aside or dismissed before they’re at. I could control my image through words, even mentioned. Sure what’s the point of obfuscate my inabilities through irony, can-picking up a craft, seeing a counsellor or cel out my fidgets with ironic emojis, and taking your medication when the second emulate being a functional person after you get that millimeter of bone moved enough practice over the years. However,

we were face-to-face now and I was facing I didn’t have the support of my weird circle the music. The inabilities I could correct of internet friends. It could have been me from behind a screen were leaking out in causing a fire, getting mad about cartoons front of them and I was convinced that they or joining a centrist party if things went suddenly understood why I wasn’t function-differently - and perhaps that’s the reason al and why I needed internet friends in the seeing these people online makes me feel first place.

dread.

The topic changed quickly. They brought The weirdest side-effect of my false up Chris-Chan, an internet personality self-consciousness is an odd kinship with whose every move (both online and off) assorted internet failures. Even though I was tracked by an obsessive group of know they are horrific people with regres-morbidly curious bystanders. The internet sive views and disgusting personalities I see discovered Chris-Chan through “Sonichu”, a distorted version of myself in the kind of a webcomic Chris-Chan worked on in the person who assumes the only way for them early 2000s. However, these bystanders to become functional is to become a Ken were more interested in the trainwreck that doll and that scares me. I often joke to my was Chris-Chan’s life than the adventures friends about “nothing people” - generic of a combination of Sonic and Pikachu. My internet failures who moderate the over-friend jokingly remarked about how bleak it watch subreddit, are oddly racist on discord must be to be a figure like Chris-Chan, be-servers, don’t have many friends, and think ing perpetually made fun of and harassed that “Greta Thunberg OWNED By TRUMP”

by weirdos online and being none the wiser compilation videos are the peak of comedy.

of it. I responded by semi-seriously saying However, it seems as if the reason these that Chris-Chan was probably happier than people irk me is because if it wasn’t for I am. The friend pointed out that Christine’s good friends I viably could have ended up house was destroyed in a fire and that this as one. As I go to throw this napkin of isola-fire was believed to have been caused by tion, self-loathing, and false self-conscious-Christine themself. I remarked that at least ness into the bin I stare into it for a moment Christine wasn’t aware of it.

and see the exact reasons why I need to do so. It tries to tell me that “Negative XP”

During an interview with VICE, Daniel aren’t a shite band.

Loptain (better known as Oneohtrix Point Never) remarked that the title of the song

“Sticky Drama” off his 2015 release “Garden of Delete” was inspired by Julia Kriste-va’s book “Powers of Horror: An Essay on Abjection”. According to Loptain, Kriste-va suggested that “although we try to repress things that come out of us, we’re still curious about them”. He then goes on to use the example of sneezing to further explain this concept - “when you sneeze, you look at the napkin for a second before you throw it in the trash”. When I was talking to my friend about Chris-Chan I was briefly reminded of this concept. Perhaps the reason that characters like Chris-Chan and the gowls who give me twitter-induced dread are so interesting to me because they remind me of the aspects of my personality I try to repress or mask within my speech and writing. Maybe they’re logical extremes, paths I could have went down if





stupidly late review:





jesus is king


Writing about the work of Kanye West hopped at the opportunity to put some of is uniquely hard because it is quite easy my semi-ironic translations of Kanye into to end up looking like a confused En-this zine. However, things ended differ-glish teacher searching for meaning in ently.

increasingly minute detail. After all, in the eyes of most people Kanye is either In order to understand “Jesus Is King”

a musical genius who single-handedly properly one has to sit through an ex-changed rap music or a funny bumbling planation of the various delays it went eejit who harasses Taylor Swift and raps through. Originally announced as “Yand-about bleached arseholes and as a result hi” in September of 2018 it was expect-of these perceptions a lot of the pieces ed to arrive on the 29th but that date on Kanye’s work tend to pander to one came and went without any real update.

of these two extremes. You either end up Kanye eventually revealed he decided to with a piece in which you repeatedly call delay the project until he could head to Kanye an egotistical weirdo or a piece in

“what is known as Africa” (his words) to which you imply that the line “I guess a re-record the project. Eventually it was blowjob’s better than no job” was inspired announced that the record would release by Trotskyist theory. It’s scarily easy to on Black Friday (November 30th) but after over-simplify Kanye’s work but it is equally performing with Kid Cudi at Camp Flog as easy to over-complicate it. I always Gnaw (the Electric Picnic for yanks who are found it fun to toy with these perceptions annoying on Instagram) Kanye claimed and as a result, often ended up trying to that the project wasn’t “ready yet” and explain the character of Kanye to bored indefinitely delayed it. After eight or so friends in order to mess with them. Some-months of leaks, speculation and rumours thing about going from gushing about Kim Kardashian tweeted a handwritten the emotional impact of “Runaway” to tracklist of the album (now called “Jesus Is explaining as to why he was involved in King”) and claimed it was to be released Pornhub awards related controversy felt on the 27th of September, 2019 (a year on very fun - even if it presumably bored the from the initial announcement). This date life out of the poor people who had to was later shifted to the 29th (supposedly put up with it. For a while I was essentially as Kanye needed to finalize the mixing the designated Kanye West explainer of of the record), but the 29th (unsurpris-my social circle, translating his antics into ingly) came and went with no sign of the digestible anecdotes. So obviously, when project. According to TMZ, Kanye had he released “Jesus Is King” this October I already finished the record but he kept on

tweaking with it as he felt unhappy with reaction surrounding it. Instead of it being the project. Eventually, Kanye tweeted a fun carnival show or a high-concept that the project was to be released on cinematic experience we were instead the 25th of October. The album missed presented with the image of an unstable its midnight deadline (again as a result of man, latching on to whatever grifters sur-mixing issues) but finally released later on round him that week and sabotaging his that day - ending over a year of waiting creative output as a result. The spectacle and bringing us to the time of me writing surrounding Kanye shifted from being this piece.

generally “funny” (since his mental illness wasn’t as apparent) to being oddly dis-

“Jesus Is King” is a deeply flawed record.

turbing, killing any notion of Kanye being a Despite only being twenty-seven min-fun clown in the process. His mental illness utes long the record (in its current state) was funny when it could be shrugged off is littered with cringy lyrics, genuinely as “just Kanye” but now we’re well beyond confusing mixing choices, trite concepts, that point and we now just feel collective and deeply mediocre execution. A lot of guilt as the spectacle drags on. West’s the songs feel like unfinished sketches of self-sabotage is further emphasized by something greater, a demo that’d get the near-constant leaking of the material leaked to YouTube five years down the of this album. A lot of these demos that line for obsessive fans to wank themselves surfaced online throughout the summer over. And that’s ignoring the disgustingly feel more complete and coherent than the cheesy ode to Chick-fil-A that verges on actual songs - to the point where Kanye being a genius piece of anti-art. Now, this fans are returning to the comment sec-isn’t to say that the record is horrific - the tions of bootleg uploads to mourn on what production is generally strong through-could have been. Our seemingly contra-out (with some notable exceptions) and dictory interpretations of Kanye West have the presence of Kanye’s Sunday Service been deeply challenged by this record and Choir is a welcome one. However, this perhaps that’s why it feels so jarring. Signs doesn’t stop the record from feeling like a of the true extent of Kanye’s mental illness disappointment - especially for those of have been staring us in the face for the us who followed the constant drip-feed better part of a decade but we ignored of snippets and leaks surrounding Yand-them because they were attached to

hi. Obsessive Kanye fans basically spent memorable melodies and funny bloopers the better part of a year waiting for full and perhaps that realization hurts harder versions of songs they got emotionally than any Chick-fil-A metaphor.

attached to, only for them to receive weird badly-mixed Christian parodies within Extremely-online Kanye obsessive have one of Kanye’s least coherent projects and responded to the release of “Jesus Is King”

no amount of subreddit-induced Stock-by compiling hypothetical alternative holm syndrome can change that. One of versions of the album. Using a combina-the most damning things about “Jesus Is tion of the aforementioned demo leaks, King” as a project is that the conversation live performances, and bootleg recordings, surrounding it is barely even related to fans released “Project Yandhi” - a fifteen the music - after all, there’s not really that song attempt to imagine a version of an much to say (as this paragraph proves).

album that will never release. Something that struck me about this project (other However, “Jesus Is King” is an extremely than the fact it’s better than the actual interesting record to me as it completely album) was how hauntological it felt. For obliterates our collective notions of Kanye.

the uninitiated, the late Mark Fisher used The old perceptions of Kanye as either an the term “hauntology” to describe art that artistic genius or a funny delusional narcis-was preoccupied with and was nostalgic sist are seemingly (unintentionally) decon-for a “lost future” - something that never structed by this project and the carnival of arrived and something that left a nota-



ble absence. In Fisher’s case he used it to beings who hand-pick every minute detail talk about how bands such as the Arctic in their creative output. The reality is sadly Monkeys turned back to the past in order more mediocre than that, art is made by to deal with the bleakness of neoliberal people - people who can be unwell, peo-reality, but in this case it seems as if Kanye ple who can self-sabotage, people who West obsessives are dealing with the re-can join megachurches. Our perceptions of ality of “Jesus Is King” and Kanye’s mental Kanye were so flawed as they dehuman-state by retreating into fantasies about ised him - either to idolise him or mock what this album could have sounded like him. Traditional warning signs of someone in a lost future. In other words, they are going down the deep end (and even lyrics imagining a reality where we received directly dealing with his bipolar disorder)

“Yandhi” when we were supposed to, and were just shrugged off as part of the mys-where the spectacle of Kanye was still tique of his character and we went along enjoyable to witness.

with his spiels out of a sense of morbid curiosity. When he showed signs of need-A common reaction to this record is claiming help we responded either with snarky ing that it is “career-ending”, something tweets or 2,000 word thinkpieces. Now that marks the point where Kanye finally obviously we couldn’t have done much crossed the line from being a visionary of anything to help but I do feel as if this genius to being insane. However, in reality, whole ordeal shows us that even though this album feels like the point where we we idolize fictional statues, the characters went from being English teachers treating that dominate our headlines are still flesh Kanye like this mythical god-like figure to and blood humans at the end of the day random onlookers staring with concern.

and this idolization is something we need Kanye essentially went from either being to actively avoid - even if that does mean a rich arsehole, or a rich arsehole who I won’t get to fill my conversations with happens to be a musical genius to just funny Kanye facts.

being a sad bastard with too much money who keeps on falling for grifters. One of our worst habits is treating people who make art as these mythological foreign



interview: titus





gilner


Titus Gilner is an artist who defies clear defi-i met rappers and photographers and graphic nition or expectation, to the point where I put designers and graffiti artists and punks and all off writing this paragraph explaining his art for sorts of people. getting out of my hometown was a stupid amount of time. Gilner has hopped the best thing that happened to me, even though constantly between projects and formats over i have returned and plan on staying for a long the years - experimenting with poetry, design, time. i became very close to a really good artist photography, music videos, and music in a way and they said something that changed my life that feels oddly coherent. Despite the fact that

“critical thinking is just creativity with a different his creative output is extremely varied there is a name.” i’ve always been good at critical thinking. i unified voice that lays behind his work - regard-strive in liberal arts. it was just a matter of chang-less of the medium a sense of authenticity and ing my mindset from writing speeches to writing sincerity permeates. Gilner’s art is interesting as it poetry. analyzing public policy became analyzing seems focused on fostering a sense of communi-landscapes and architecture. i was not an artist, ty - either online through the journal entries and or even thought about being one, until 18 or 19.

poems compiled in “This Is Me” or offline through his constant promotion of young creatives in his

FC: What is your creative process like? Do you

hometown of Amarillo, Texas. Equally as inter-

feel like your art is mostly methodical and well

esting was the push Gilner made away from the

thought out or is it more improvisational and

traditional infrastructure of social media, favoring

focused in the moment?

the use of mass-text and email to promote and very much improvisational and in the moment.

release new work. This meant that Gilner was able I love the science of chaos. letting the chips fall to reach out to a local audience in a personal and where they may. thats something i really like direct capacity, avoiding the black hole of social about public / street art like graffiti. its imperfect media while also being able to utilize the low cost and not permanent.

of entry and speed associated with digital distribution. In the hopes of making this introductory a lot of payrent is reliant on the art of random. i paragraph slightly less pretentious and getting a bleach dye, tye-dye, and splatter a lot of clothing clearer idea of what goes into one of his pieces, I and i do it mindlessly.

reached out and talked to Gilner about fostering local scenes, his main inspirations and aspirations, in photography it’s the thrill of chaos that draws as well as the challenges he faced maneuvering me. I love not knowing what to expect. Studio around the three websites that consume our lives.

work has never been my favorite thing because it’s much too predictable. coming across some-

FC: What first inspired you to make art and

thing that no one else has seen, or haven’t cared

why?

to really look at, is what draws me to walk around i was living in san marcos texas going to texas aimlessly with a camera.

state university. pre law track, on a debate scholarship. then i met people that identified I love the serendipity of the world and I think it’s themselves as “artists” for the first time in my much more advantageous for artists to embrace life. growing up i went to a small school - my that rather than fight it.

graduating high school class was 18 people - and i didnt have that much of a social circle. in college the light won’t always be perfect, but the mo-



ment is. the brushstrokes might be visible, but figured out. I was doing a mailing list through they were made. someone did it. just like the life google voice, but now the list is too large. They of a person is full of chaos, I think it’s important to have algorithms that prevent you from sending let that leak onto the page. or photo.

out spam, so the moment i try and send the same link or text or photo to over 50 people i get

FC: When doing research for this piece I found

blocked out for a day. My mailing list is about

it hard to find just one word to describe your

200. In order to get proper mailing list software

creative output. Throughout the years you’ve

i would have to pay a monthly fee that just isn’t

hopped between many different mediums and

feasible right now.

forms of expression (such as music videos, poet-

ry, photography, and fashion). What word would

But I would recommend this sort of distribution to

you use to classify yourself and your work?

anyone that can pull it off. I have a ton of obsta-I don’t know. this is a good question. maybe cles but I have seen the power of direct market-decisive. I make decisions and i follow through ing. Before these algorithms, i was throwing shows with them. sometimes blindly. growing up my one with 100s of people that would have normally of my dad’s favorite sayings was “don’t half ass only had 30-50. The mailing list allows me to it”. he said it to me constantly. about everything.

have direct access to the people that care about from trivial things to huge life decisions he would my work, without cluttering up the feeds and lives say “don’t half ass it.’’ he’s a cowboy. so i guess i of people that could care less.

was sorta brainwashed to decide what i want and to do it till its done.

FC: You recently tweeted that all art is political.

What do you think that your art stands for and

FC: Over the past year, you’ve talked a lot

why?

about moving away from social media and the

I think it really depends on what aspect of my art

norms it entails. What is your relationship with

youre talking about.

the internet like and do you think that this

relationship has shaped or formed your art in

I think what that saying means - “all art is po-

some way?

litical” - is that all art impacts people from top Man….

to bottom. Politics (my favorite thing after art) is just the happenings of people in a society or My relationship with the internet is rocky. The town. And art happening in a society or town will best and the worst things in my life stems from inherently affect the lives of people in that society the web. MOST of the people in my life, even in or town. It is impossible to create in a vacuum.

my hometown, are from the internet. I met most No matter how hard an artist tries, their work will of my friends online first and even most of my ro-inevitably inspire someone, or give perspective to mantic relationships since high school have been someone, or make someone angry or happy. Art because of tinder.

will inevitably make people have an opinion.

To answer your question directly, yes, the internet

FC: A lot of pieces (especially your photography

has greatly shaped me and my art. I wish that

project “Oh, Amarillo!”) relate in some way to

I could exist without the internet but i just dont

the city in which you grew up. Do you feel like

think that’s possible for most people anymore.

growing up in a smaller city such as Amarillo

The only reason anyone even knows who I am is

shaped you as an artist and if so in what way?

because of the internet. My audience is online Without a doubt yes. I had just moved back from and in real life second. That shapes how most San Marcos/Austin when I started “Oh, Amarillo!”

people consume my art, how most people hear about my art, and how most people perceive me I had experience living in a big city for the first as an artist. I want to be as genuine and human time. Being away from home made me miss as possible when I am online.

home. I started to realize that most people, how-ever, are not from big cities. The majority of peo-

FC: Seemingly as part of this push you’ve made

ple on this planet are from cities like Amarillo or

away from traditional social media you’ve

smaller. We are the 14th largest city in texas, like

started to share your work via group text and

116th largest city in the US, and our population sits

email. What was the process of setting this up

at about 200k. That’s about the cusp between

like and would you recommend this alternative

“town” and “city”. I started viewing Amarillo as an

method of distribution to other artists and

“everytown” - sorta like the idea of the everyman

creatives?

that you might have learned about in high school.

Using the internet as a social infrastructure while Amarillo is just like every other town in America.

trying to ignore all the things that were designed It isn’t a phenomenon like NY or LA or Chi, its av-to be social infrastructure is definitely challenging.

erage, like Cheyenne, Glendale, Baton Rouge, or Durham. Once i realized that Amarillo is a great The setup is something i still haven’t totally test subject when it comes to learning about and

studying the average american / american city, I think first and foremost my biggest inspiration as i’ve kinda become obsessive.

of late has been Bones and TeamSesh. I know a lot of the members through the internet and have

FC: A lot of your work has also related to your

seen them grow a ton over the years. I just love

attempts to foster the creative scene in your

their dedication. They stand by their principles to

community. What would you say to other cre-

the end even if its detrimental. Bones is indepen-

atives who want to grow their local scene and

dent and stands for so many of the same things

find other artists despite living in smaller cities

that I believe in.

or towns that traditionally aren’t given the

attention they deserve?

Secondly i would say tv. I’m a huge television fan, ive been asked this question by a lot of younger more so than movies. I don’t watch a big variety, people in my city recently. I think that’s interesti just binge the same handful of series for months ing. im 24 and people that are 18 have no clue at a time. Right now i’m on People Just Do Noth-about any of the shit ive done in the past.

ing, the Ricky Gervais Show, and West Wing.

that’s kinda how the local scene goes though.

Also im very inspired by the people around me and in my city. One of the main reasons I do oh they are all bigger than you realize.

amarillo and things of that nature is to give my city, people just like me with similar interests and I would say this - break the fourth wall of the obstacles, something to root for. Something to internet. if you want to make an impact in real life hold on to and something to claim and some-then you have to impact people in real life. pull thing to be inspired by. If I lived on an island all up in your local square and do a pop up. bring an alone i would kill myself. I am a very social person amp and a mic to your college quad. do it. fuck and a lot of my actions revolve around the needs it. why not

and desires of other people.

also don’t worry about making friends. it will

FC: What albums have you been listening to this

happen naturally, but if you wanna do something

year?

then do it. don’t wait for other people. just do it.

I’m still listening to theStand4rd album. I’m very you don’t need help.

excited for the next bobby raps project. I’ve been consuming bones albums like they are water. I’m

FC: It seems as if a lot of your work has been

really into UnderTheWillowTree at the moment. It’s

related to building some form of alternative to

one of his best projects in awhile. I have decided

the traditional means in which we consume me-

that I like Endless more than Blonde. The Pouya

dia, whether it be by championing local scenes

album surprised me.

over the mainstream or just by moving away

from using corporate social media to share your

JACKSON!!! How in the world could I forget Jack-

art. Is this an intentional choice and if so do

son. Everyone reading this needs to go check him

you feel like this alternative to the mainstream

out immediately. He’s put out 3 projects this year

is becoming more and more necessary in our

and I love every single one of them. I haven’t been

current climate?

this excited about an unknown artist in a long A little bit of both. I feel like its really easy to get time. He’s kinda hard to find on spotify/apple crowded off the shelf online and by taking things music so seach “jackson wolfwood” then go to his to a more traditional playing field it’s much easier page from there.

to stand out.

FC: If you could talk to a past version of yourself

I think that if you want to be a big fish, it’s good

what would you tell them?

to become one in a small pond first, so that you Care more about yourself.

don’t get eaten alive when you try to move on to more spacious waters.

FC: What are your creative plans for the future?

I’m honestly not really sure. I don’t like to plan very

FC: Of all the pieces that you’ve worked on over

far in advance. I think I want to be a journalist /

the years what ones are you the proudest of

historian of sorts. I love all media, from radio to

and why?

TV to print. I just want to leave a mark. That’s my

“This Is Me” is probably the most impactful thing creative plans for the future: Leave An Impact.

i’ve done to date honestly. It was like 2015 or so Right? Change the game in such a way that it and it was honestly such a dope project that can never be played the same again.

really reached a lot of people. I think it’s still up on ibooks.

Titus can be found on Twitter and Instagram as

@titusgilner.

FC: What are your main creative inspirations as

of late and how are they inspiring you?





ill.neocities.org

help me sell out :-)





